Welcome back.
I just found this python package pie jokes and mind you I have never installed this so I'm going to
try and do this from scratch so you can see what the steps would be like.
So this is a completely useless package.
It looks like it gives us one line jokes for programmers.
So I think this will be appropriate.
I also like the fact that it has GitHub stars.
So here sometimes some of these packages have are hosted on github and get hub is essentially a social
network for programmers you're able to put up your code up here and people can be your code and download
it and a good measure of how popular a package is is usually something like stars or forks because stars
are given by people that really like the package or fork is people who copy the package and use it in
their own coding maybe on their own get how profiles.
So this looks like a very simple library so let's let's install it.
So there's several ways that we can actually install this package.
You can see here that the command is pip install pi jokes but I want to show you first how it works
with PI charm and then show you how to do it with the command line so I have pi charm over here.
We have some relics of our old project now in here in PI charm.
Again it's an idea so comes with a lot of built in things I can do PI charm preferences and then simply
go to project modules I can go to project interpreter and then here I see that this interpreter has
some modules already pre installed.
I see that I have Pip but all I need to do is click on the plus sign here.
If I click plus I can actually hear search for packages so these are all the available packages that
we have.
So what was our thing called again pi jokes.
All right let's search for Pi jokes pi jokes.
There it is.
I think it was this one with zero point five with the author pi joke society just making sure that it's
the same one yep.
Author of Pi joke society.
So all we need to do here is to simply install package.
There you go.
Pi jokes installed successfully.
So now that I have pi jokes here let's have a look at how we can use it.
By the way I can actually test to see that I have this installed.
If I go to lip Python three point seven site packages there's my PI jokes distribution.
Awesome so let's see how we can use it again.
I've actually never used this before so let's have a look.
You can also access jokes in your own project by importing pi jokes.
All right.
Let me just copy that and using the function get joke and get jokes.
All right sounds simple enough.
Let's give that a go.
I'm going to import pi jokes like that an animal is the function the function was get joke.
So let's do pie jokes and say Get
joke and I can see that I can give it a language and category.
So let's say get joke here so string is English so let's do we want the joke in english and category.
Let's see it says we can do neutral what are the options here.
Neutral is neutral geek jokes no adult jokes for us we can do Chuck Norris jokes.
All right.
Neutral is fine that's the default.
So we actually don't even need to pass anything here.
But just to be safe let's do neutral.
All right let's.
I don't know what it's going to do so let's just run this program and see what happens.
All right.
Let's print out the joke.
Let's say joke equals and then say print joke five like run real programmers can write assembly code
in any language Ha ha ha.
All right.
Here's our completely useless package.
Let's do another one.
We'll see if there's any funny ones.
How to explain the movie Inception to a programmer when you run a VM inside another VM inside another
VM.
Everything runs real slow.
All right.
Some of these jokes I'm sure are pretty funny some of them might be a little bit advanced but hey that's
actually not bad.
You know what I might use this package in the future I think.
I think this fine but I won't bore you with me.
Keep pressing play I might die.
I might not record for a few hours and just waste time reading these these jokes but I just wanted to
show the process of how I would go about doing something like this.
Now most programmers that don't use pi charm instead of doing what I did will most likely use let's
say their terminal to actually do this.
So I have my sublime text here and my terminal or a command prompt.
If you're on Windows right here and if I do present working directory again this is a Linux and Mac
command so I see I'm on the desktop which is where what might 1.0 PI follows.
Now if I wanted to use the PI jokes in here and I click Run.
So let's say Python 3 1.0 pi module not found no module named pi jokes.
That's not good but that's because we installed it for our PI charm environment but not enough for us
to use outside of pie chart.
So how can we do that.
Well we can do Pip to install from the P wide API library or the repository.
So again if I go all the way up you see that I have pip install pi jokes so I can even copy this and
just install it for myself here.
Now here's the thing.
Depending on how you have your machine set up.
If I do Pip dash V with capital V it's going to give me the version of Pip but if you see here that
it says from Python two point seven we want to make sure we're using Python 3.
So in your case if you do Pip three dash v you'll get the right version of Pip so make sure you check
that and make sure that you're using with the Python 3 or higher.
In my case I'll have to call Pip 3 you can always set this up so that Pip refers to the Python 3.
But for now let's say Pip 3 and then we're going to install and here all we say is the package name
we want to install in our case it's the PI jokes package
it's collecting pi jokes successfully installed pi jokes zero point five I also get a little warning
here you're using Pip version nineteen point 0 point 3.
However version nineteen point one is available and you might get this and I always recommend just upgrading.
So I'm just going to copy the command that they give us and I'm going to say pip install upgrade Pip
and I'm gonna do Pip three
right.
So I've successfully updated Pip so again Pip 3 v now House version nineteen point one point one if
I now let's say clear here and do Pip list I see that it shows me all the lists of the packages that
I have and if I scroll up here I see that I have whereas it well I use the PIP man instead of Pip three
solicitor Pip three list.
So there's something that you just have to be careful of.
You can see Pip three list is looking a lot nicer.
Let's see I see that pie jokes is installed awesome.
So now that I have this let's run it so I can run Python 3 and then say 1.0 by
Oh what an appropriate joke I swear I did not time this.
This is just the programming universe telling us something says Friends don't let friends use python
two point seven because hey we should get this joke.
Python 3 is the current and latest.
That's funny.
That's actually a I'm pretty please.
I feel like we should end the video here because this is this is just perfect.
All right.
This is how you install packages with P IP we are able to really use the power of the developers all
around the world using just the simple comment pip or PIP 3 install and whatever package we want across
the world across the Internet we have access to in our projects.
I'll see you in the next one by.